,category,text
4,entertainment,ocean s twelve raids box office ocean s twelve  the crime caper sequel starring george clooney  brad pitt and julia roberts  has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales  according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week s number one  national treasure  into third place. wesley snipes  blade: trinity was in second  taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express  starring tom hanks  and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean s twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us  after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor  ocean s eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film  starring frank sinatra and the rat pack  ocean s eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney  pitt and roberts with matt damon  andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast.  it s just a fun  good holiday movie   said dan fellman  president of distribution at warner bros. however  us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project  with the los angeles times labelling it a  dispiriting vanity project . a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel  unabashedly trivial .
1853,entertainment,ocean s twelve raids box office ocean s twelve  the crime caper sequel starring george clooney  brad pitt and julia roberts  has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales  according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week s number one  national treasure  into third place. wesley snipes  blade: trinity was in second  taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express  starring tom hanks  and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean s twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us  after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor  ocean s eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film  starring frank sinatra and the rat pack  ocean s eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney  pitt and roberts with matt damon  andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast.  it s just a fun  good holiday movie   said dan fellman  president of distribution at warner bros. however  us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project  with the los angeles times labelling it a  dispiriting vanity project . a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel  unabashedly trivial .
1308,entertainment,fockers retain film chart crown comedy meet the fockers has held on to the number one spot at the north american box office for a second week.  it took $42.8m (£23.7m) at the weekend  making its overall takings more than $163m (£90m) in 12 days  according to studio estimates. it took $19.1m (£9.9m) on christmas day alone  the highest takings on that day in box office history. the sequel to the ben stiller comedy meet the parents stars robert de niro  dustin hoffman and barbra streisand. the success of meet the fockers could help produce record box office revenue for 2004  said paul dergarabedian  president of the industry s tracker exhibitor relations.  we ve had a much stronger than anticipated final week of the year that helped the industry end on a high note   said mr dergarabedian.  meet the fockers also broke the box office records for the most money taken on new year s eve  when it made $12.2m (£6.2m)  and new year s day  when it took $18m (£9.4m). the previous new year s eve record was set in 2000 by cast away with $8.5m (£4.5m). the lord of the rings: the return of the king had held the new year s day title with $12.8m (£6.7m). however  christmas takings were down 26.5% on 2003 s figures - which was blamed on christmas falling over a weekend this year. this weekend s top 12 films took an estimated $125.4m (£65.8m)  a 4.3% increase on the same weekend last year. but there were no major releases last week to provide competition to meet the fockers or lemony snicket s a series of unfortunate events  which finished in second place with $14.7m (£7.7m). the aviator  starring leonardo dicaprio as howard hughes  ended up in third position after taking $11.2m (£5.9m). comedy fat albert - co-written by bill cosby - moved down the chart to fourth place after taking $10.7m (£5.6m).
1022,entertainment,fockers keeps us box office lead film comedy meet the fockers  sequel to meet the parents  has topped the us box office for a third week.  the movie  which stars ben stiller  robert de niro  dustin hoffman and barbra streisand  took $28.5m (£15.2m)  making a total of 204.3m (£109m). michael keaton thriller white noise was second with $24m (£12.8m) despite negative reviews. martin scorsese s howard hughes biopic the aviator came third with $7.6m (£4m) and a total of $42.9m (£22.8m). children s adventure lemony snicket s a series of unfortunate events  starring jim carrey and meryl streep  fell two places to fourth position with $7.4m (£3.9m).  it is also the ninth jim carrey film to hit the $100m (£53.2m) mark  according to exhibitor relations. and fat albert  a live-action adaptation of bill cosby s tv cartoon  fell one place to number five  with takings over the three days beginning on friday of $5m (£2.6m). ocean s twelve took sixth place in the us chart with $5.4m (£2.8m)  but it led the non-us chart at the weekend  according to hollywood reporter  with an estimated $17.7m (£9.4m) and total takings of $137m (£73m). the incredibles took $300m (£160m) outside the us  while meet the fockers topped box office charts in australia and mexico with non-us takings of $19.35m (£10.2m).
120,entertainment,slater to star in broadway play actor christian slater is stepping into the role of tom in the broadway revival of the glass menagerie.  slater  35  is replacing actor dallas roberts in the tennessee williams drama  which opens next month. no reason was given for roberts  departure. the role will be played by understudy joey collins until slater joins the show. slater won rave reviews for his recent performance in one flew over the cuckoo s nest in london s west end.  he has also starred in a number of films  including heathers  robin hood: prince of thieves and more recently churchill: the hollywood years. preview performances of the glass menagerie will begin at new york s ethel barrymore theatre on thursday. philip rinaldi  a spokesman for the show  said the play s 15 march opening date remains unchanged. the revival  directed by david leveaux  will also star jessica lange as the domineering mother  amanda wingfield.
475,entertainment,prince crowned  top music earner  prince earned more than any other pop star in 2004  beating artists such madonna and elton john in us magazine rolling stone s annual list.  the singer banked $56.5m (£30.4m) from concerts  album and publishing sales with his musicology tour and album. he kept madonna in second place  as she earned $54.9m (£29.5m) while embarking on her global re-invention tour. veterans simon and garfunkel were in 10th place  their comeback tour helping them earn $24.9m (£13.4m) last year.   prince returned to centre stage after a decade in the commercial wilderness   the magazine reported. the singer s 2004 tour took $90.3m (£48.5m) in ticket sales and he sold 1.9 million copies of his latest album musicology.  although she grossed more than prince last year  madonna remained in second place because of the  monumental  production costs of her tour. heavy metal band metallica s madly in anger with the world tour helped push their 2004 earnings up to $43.1m (£23.1m). they were ahead of sir elton john  who took fourth place and almost $42.7m (£23m) from performances including a debut on the las vegas strip. other seasoned performers in the list included rod stewart  whose sold-out shows and third volume of the great american songbook covers album helped net him £35m (£19m). the highest-ranking rap act in the list was 50 cent  who at number 19 took $24m (£13m) to the bank.
852,entertainment,prince crowned  t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          v  op music earner  prince earned more than any other pop star in 2004  beating artists such madonna and elton john in us magazine rolling stone s annual list.  the singer banked $56.5m (£30.4m) from concerts  album and publishing sales with his musicology tour and album. he kept madonna in second place  as she earned $54.9m (£29.5m) while embarking on her global re-invention tour. veterans simon and garfunkel were in 10th place  their comeback tour helping them earn $24.9m (£13.4m) last year.   prince returned to centre stage after a decade in the commercial wilderness   the magazine reported. the singer s 2004 tour took $90.3m (£48.5m) in ticket sales and he sold 1.9 million copies of his latest album musicology.  although she grossed more than prince last year  madonna remained in second place because of the  monumental  production costs of her tour. heavy metal band metallica s madly in anger with the world tour helped push their 2004 earnings up to $43.1m (£23.1m). they were ahead of sir elton john  who took fourth place and almost $42.7m (£23m) from performances including a debut on the las vegas strip. other seasoned performers in the list included rod stewart  whose sold-out shows and third volume of the great american songbook covers album helped net him £35m (£19m). the highest-ranking rap act in the list was 50 cent  who at number 19 took $24m (£13m) to the bank.
559,entertainment,box office blow for alexander director oliver stone s historical epic alexander has failed in its bid to conquer the box office  entering the us film charts at number six.  the swords and sandals blockbuster  rumoured to have cost more than $150m (£79m) to make  earned just $13.5 (£7m) over three days at the us box office. due to the thanksgiving holiday  the film opened on wednesday  bringing its total takings to $21.6m (£11.4m). top of the box office for a second week was action movie national treasure. the family adventure  starring nicolas cage  took $33.1m (£17.m)  ahead of animated comedy the incredibles - now in its fourth week in the charts - which took $24.1m (£12.7m).  last week oliver stone s film met with scathing reviews from us critics. the film stars irish actor colin farrell as one of history s most celebrated leaders - a relentless and arrogant warrior who conquered much of the known world by the age of 25. in particular  its portrayal of alexander as a bisexual has met with a hostile reception and the threat of legal action from greek lawyers.  though the battles have the blood-and-sinew bravado you expect from oliver stone  this three-hour buttnumbathon is hamstrung by a hectoring grandiosity   wrote one reviewer in rolling stone magazine. others poured scorn on farrell s bleached hair and angelina jolie s unwieldy accent  which variety called  a combination of mata hari and count dracula  . but novelist gore vidal defended the film  saying it was  barrier-breaking  for its frank depiction of bisexuality.  in sweden last thursday  to pick up a lifetime achievement award at the stockholm international film festival  stone expressed the hope that alexander might be better appreciated in europe.  one of the reasons i am being honoured here is europeans tend to see me a little differently than they do in the us   said the director behind jfk  platoon and born on the fourth of july. he added alexander  was not an easy movie  but then i ve never made easy movies .
569,entertainment,shark tale dvd is us best-seller oscar-nominated animation shark tale has raked in $80m (£42.4m) in the first week of its us dvd release becoming the year s best-selling home video so far.  the tally for its dvd and video sales soared past the film s opening week us box office takings of $56m (£29.7m). shark tale is now the sixth-highest earning dvd for first week sales. the all-time first-week record is held by 1995 s lion king followed by shrek 2  finding nemo  the original shrek  and monster s inc.  shark tale  whose voice cast includes will smith  robert de niro  renee zellweger and martin scorsese  sold more than 6 million dvds and videos across the united states and canada. it becomes the highest first-week earner for february  outshining my big fat greek wedding which sold four million units in 2003. films which are expected to earn strong home video returns are usually timed for release in the busiest retail season which falls before christmas. the best-selling home video of last year was the dreamworks hit shrek 2  which took an estimated $458 m (£242.7m) in north america alone.
423,entertainment,little britain two top comic list little britain stars matt lucas and david walliams have been named the most powerful people in tv comedy  in a poll by listings magazine radio times.  the duo kept phoenix nights creator peter kay at number two and the office star ricky gervais in third place. a radio times panel compiled the list  taking the comedians  critical acclaim and financial success into account. newcomers to the annual list included nighty night star julia davis at seven and black books  tamsin greig at 19.  lucas and walliams won numerous awards for little britain in 2004  including national television  royal television society and british comedy awards. more than 1.8 million people watched the first episode of the latest series of little britain on bbc three in october  giving the digital channel its highest rating ever.  they topped the radio times list after rising from 10th position last year. other big risers over the past year included presenting duo ant and dec at five  up from 13 in 2004  stephen fry rising nine places to 15 and bbc three controller stuart murphy  who moves to number 18 from 32 last year. last year s winner  chat show host graham norton  fell to number 16 following relatively few television appearances in 2004. production companies also featured in the top 50  including steve coogan s baby cow  which created nighty night among others  hat trick - behind the kumars at number 42 - and the vicar of dibley production company tiger aspect.
